README.md, before:

# Valeronoi

Valeronoi (Valetudo + Voronoi) is a companion for [Valetudo](https://valetudo.cloud) for generating WiFi signal strength maps. It visualizes them using a [Voronoi diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voronoi_diagram).

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot.png)

## Installation

Binary distributions are available for Linux, macOS and Windows (x86_64). They can be found in the [releases](https://github.com/ccoors/Valeronoi/releases).

- Linux: [AppImages](https://appimage.org/). The AppImage is built on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) and Qt 6, so it probably won't run on anything older than that.
- macOS: Built with Qt 6 on macOS 11 Big Sur on Intel Macs. It also works with Rosetta 2 on M1-based Macs.
- Windows: Compiled on Windows with mingw64/Qt 6. Available as an installer and a portable zip. Using the uninstaller generated by the installer also removes the registry keys used for the settings stored by Valeronoi.

## Basic Usage

1. Make sure you have a supported robot running a recent Valetudo version (API v2). Having persistent maps is highly recommended.
2. Set up the robot connection in Valeronoi (Robot -> Setup)
3. Connect Valeronoi to the robot using the "Connect" button
4. Verify that the complete, correct map is displayed (!) See below for an explanation.
5. Start recording WiFi measurements by clicking the "Begin recording" button
6. Start a cleanup, either using the controls in the "Control" tab or Valetudo/Home Assistant/... If you don't have persistent maps, make sure to not start a full cleanup! Major map updates can not be handled in Valeronoi.
7. While cleaning, watch the map update
8. After the robot returned to the dock, stop the recording and/or disconnect Valeronoi

### Persistent maps

If you have a robot that does not support persistent maps (Roborock V1) or don't have that feature enabled, make sure to only record when doing partial cleanups, as a new map will always be generated on a full cleanup. Major map changes during recording can change the internal map coordinates and mess up the recording.

## Support

### Graphics

If the graphics are slow and unresponsive, try the following things in the "Display" tab:

- Disable drawing the floor
- Disabling the "Restrict to ..." checkboxes
- Increase the "Simplify" slider
- Enabling drawing using OpenGL

**Warning:** Using OpenGL may increase or decrease performance, depending on your system. Enabling OpenGL can also lead to various issues, like garbage text or inverted graphics. Valeronoi requests OpenGL 3.2, which should be available on most systems, but may not be available in VMs or Remote Desktop scenarios.

## Building from source

Install the required Libraries using the method of your choice:

- Qt 6
- CGAL (4.x/5.x should work)

You also need a C++-Compiler capable of C++17. g++ 7 or later works.

Then use the CMake-Project as you would in any other project.

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make -j
```

### Arch Linux

A `PKGBUILD` for the `valeronoi-git` package is provided in `tools/pkgbuild/valeronoi-git`. To build and install it run `makepkg -si`.

## License

GPLv3

Commit message:

extended robot setup for an external measuring system

README.md, after:

# Valeronoi

Valeronoi (Valetudo + Voronoi) is a companion for [Valetudo](https://valetudo.cloud) for generating WiFi signal strength maps. It visualizes them using a [Voronoi diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voronoi_diagram).

This fork extends the original project with the optional function of using a different system for signal strength measurement. This can be used together with [felixknorre/node-wifiscanner](https://github.com/felixknorre/node-wifiscanner).

![Screenshot](assets/screenshot.png)

## Installation

Binary distributions are available for Linux, macOS and Windows (x86_64). They can be found in the [releases](https://github.com/ccoors/Valeronoi/releases).

- Linux: [AppImages](https://appimage.org/). The AppImage is built on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish) and Qt 6, so it probably won't run on anything older than that.
- macOS: Built with Qt 6 on macOS 11 Big Sur on Intel Macs. It also works with Rosetta 2 on M1-based Macs.
- Windows: Compiled on Windows with mingw64/Qt 6. Available as an installer and a portable zip. Using the uninstaller generated by the installer also removes the registry keys used for the settings stored by Valeronoi.

## Basic Usage

1. Make sure you have a supported robot running a recent Valetudo version (API v2). Having persistent maps is highly recommended.
2. Set up the robot connection in Valeronoi (Robot -> Setup)
3. Connect Valeronoi to the robot using the "Connect" button
4. Verify that the complete, correct map is displayed (!) See below for an explanation.
5. Start recording WiFi measurements by clicking the "Begin recording" button
6. Start a cleanup, either using the controls in the "Control" tab or Valetudo/Home Assistant/... If you don't have persistent maps, make sure to not start a full cleanup! Major map updates can not be handled in Valeronoi.
7. While cleaning, watch the map update
8. After the robot returned to the dock, stop the recording and/or disconnect Valeronoi

### Persistent maps

If you have a robot that does not support persistent maps (Roborock V1) or don't have that feature enabled, make sure to only record when doing partial cleanups, as a new map will always be generated on a full cleanup. Major map changes during recording can change the internal map coordinates and mess up the recording.

## Support

### Graphics

If the graphics are slow and unresponsive, try the following things in the "Display" tab:

- Disable drawing the floor
- Disabling the "Restrict to ..." checkboxes
- Increase the "Simplify" slider
- Enabling drawing using OpenGL

**Warning:** Using OpenGL may increase or decrease performance, depending on your system. Enabling OpenGL can also lead to various issues, like garbage text or inverted graphics. Valeronoi requests OpenGL 3.2, which should be available on most systems, but may not be available in VMs or Remote Desktop scenarios.

## Building from source

Install the required Libraries using the method of your choice:

- Qt 6
- CGAL (4.x/5.x should work)

You also need a C++-Compiler capable of C++17. g++ 7 or later works.

Then use the CMake-Project as you would in any other project.

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
make -j
```

### Arch Linux

A `PKGBUILD` for the `valeronoi-git` package is provided in `tools/pkgbuild/valeronoi-git`. To build and install it run `makepkg -si`.

## License

GPLv3
